Now we can add items to a cart.
We also need to make sure that we can display a list of all the items that have been added.
So in this video we're going to start to implement our cart display page.
That's going to be the next request handler.
They were going to work on right here.
Let's first begin by setting up the root handler itself.
I'll do a router docket and we'll see if a user ever goes to slash cart.
We'll display the list of items all right.
So what are we going to do inside of here.
Well there's a couple of different things we need to think about.
First off we need to make sure that the user has a cart assigned to them.
Remember we don't always have a cart available to us.
We can't always assume that a user is going to first add an item to the cart which is what actually
causes its creation.
A user might attempt to come to this route right here before he can cart has even been created.
So if a user tries to end up inside this root handler or make a GET request to slash cart when they
don't have a cart already corresponding to them we're going to need to make sure that we redirect them
back to our product listing page.
So let's take care of that first.
I'm going to say if not rec not session not cart I.D..
So if we don't have an AI cart I.D. tied to this person let's do a return immediately and we will arrest
not redirect back to our route routes so if we then get past that if statement that means that we do
have a cart idea and we need to retrieve that cart out of our carts repo so I'll say concert cart is
a weight carts repo we're going to use the same find one that we did up here or get one.
Excuse me.
So do a get one
with rec not session not cart I.D.
Now what's your recall.
What a cart really looks like.
So a cart itself is going to be an object like this right here.
So it has the items array if we want to display item or details about every product that's been added
into this cart.
We actually actually have to run some complicated logic here.
So we need to iterate through that items array we need to look at each individual I.D. and then for
each I.D. We need to take a look at our products repository and find the corresponding item.
Only then are we going to get the title in the price which are what we actually need in order to put
this page together
so back over here after we fetch cart we're going to want to iterate over that list of items.
So I'll say for led item of items or Sumi cart dot items.
There we go
then for every item and remember an item is going to look something like this an item is going to have
an object with an I.D. and that's going to be the idea of a particular item and the quantity
so let's make sure that we take each item we're going to take the idea and make a query over to our
products repo so we can get some details about this product to make sure that I require in the products
repo at the very top of the file it's a backup here I'll do a product's repo
from repositories products and now with that we can go back down to our handler and write here let's
do a concert.
Product is a weight products repo.
We'll do a get one on item dot I.D.
then once we get the product we need to somehow associate with this item or this item and this product
together because remember at the end of the day we essentially want to handle all this data off to a
template and show this kind of H2 email structure.
So just to make this really easy we're going to take the product that we just found and assign it to
the item property so the item is this thing right here.
So we're essentially saying yeah what the heck.
Just take the entire product all the information about it and assign it to a product property like so.
And that's a messy copy paste but that's the idea.
Now remember we're not can actually save this changed back to a repository.
We're just going to add in this product property before we hand all this data off to our template.
So the template can very easily access the associated product as it iterate over the list of items.
So I'll say item dot product is product
then finally after that once we get out of the for loop and we found every corresponding item well then
sent back.
We'll do a red dot sent and we're going to want to show some kind of template here.
So maybe we will create a template called something like cart show template and we will pass in our
list of items they'll say items is cart dot items
let's now get started to work on this template.
You know I got to fix up the typo excuse me the typo I have inside there inside of my views directory
I'm going to make a new folder called cart's and inside I'll make a new file called show dot J.S. I'll
then make sure that I require in show j ust to Kurt J.S. so the top I'll do a heart show template we're
gonna go up one directory interviews into carts and get that show file we just created then inside of
show itself let's get our layout
we'll do a module experts we'll take the items that are going to be passed in and then we will iterate
over that list of items so we'll do const rendered items is items dot map and for every item we can
return a little snippet of each out so I will return a multi line string right now we're just going
to try to print out some information about the item as plain text so we'll do How about a div
and inside that div we'll first print out the title of the product so remember item we've added in that
product property so like that thing right there.
So you can say item dot product dot title or price or so on let's do item that product not title and
I'll put in a little dash and then right after I'll do item product price
okay.
So this is going to give us an array of strings as usual we're going to join that together so we get
one big string and then finally at the bottom we'll return our layouts we're gonna pass our layout and
object give it the content property I'll put a multi line string inside of here and then I'll display
each one and say something like cart and then after that we'll just print out our list of rendered items
okay.
So this looks like a pretty good first step.
Let's do a quick test.
I gonna go back over.
I'm gonna go to my root root area right here now I should already have a couple of products inside my
cart so I gotta try navigating to cart right away.
I've already wired up this link right here inside the header to navigate to local those 3000 slash cart.
You could see that at the very bottom left hand inside your browser so let's click on that.
We come over here and it looks like we've got a little error.
Once again I have forgotten async await my mistake.
I apologize that's like the fourth time now on this application so I'll go back to Kurt's J.S. I'm gonna
find the root handler.
We were just working on a market as a sink.
Let's save that and give this thing another shot.
There we go.
Much better.
It's now I see a cart and I've added in winter gloves for nineteen dollars in winter hat with drawstring
for fifteen dollars.
Okay.
So looks like we're definitely persisting these items and we can now render them out onto the screen.
Very good.
So let's take a quick pause right here.
When we come back the next video we're going to once again take a template file or some greed on HDMI.
I put together and kind of make this entire cart screen look a lot better than it currently looks.